[Music]
hello this is Pete from electric bike
rapport and this is the Stromer st one
platinum electric bike in for testing
and review so this is a fast electric
bike goes up to 28 miles per hour and it
does it with pedal assist only there's
no throttle on the handlebar there's no
twist grip or thumb throttle or anything
so basically you just select which pedal
assist level you want and this there's a
torque sensor in the back that will
determine how hard your pedaling and
based on that pedal assist level you
selected the bike will take you up to
around 28 miles per hour so spike is all
about pedaling and going fast so one of
the unique things about Stromer electric
bikes is that they have the battery pack
in the downtube of the frame you can
remove that battery pack by opening up
the lock here and then the door will
swing to the side and you can pull the
pack out I'll show that in a little bit
here the Platinum comes with a 36 volt
14 and a half amp hour battery pack and
that's a bit larger than a traditional
36 volt 10 amp power pack that you find
on a lot of electric bikes on the other
side here this is the charging port so
you can charge the battery while it's in
the bike I plug the charger in there and
then the charger plugs into a normal
wall outlet and you can also charge the
battery once it's been removed if you
want so to open the battery compartment
you turn the key here and then push the
button on the other side of the frame
near the charging port and it will open
up and then you can take the battery
pack and pull it out like this you get
the whole battery pack there and then on
the bottom there's a connector for the
charger the charger has a special
connector that will connect into this
and then you can charge the battery pack
in your house or at the office but you
can also charge it on the bike as well
so just slide it back in there close it
up lock the key and you're good to go
let's take a look at the Stromer
frame and fork first of all this is the
carbon fiber fork that comes on the
Platinum you also have the option for a
suspension fork if you want the frame
itself is a aluminum tubing and you can
see it's pretty well oversized has a
nice thick weld on the back here of some
rectangular seat stays okay and that
gives it that unique look but yeah
overall this is a pretty large and tough
looking frame this is the 500 watt
direct drive rear hub motor on the
Platinum you can also see here this is
the torque sensor on the rear drop out
of the frame and that senses how much
power you're putting into the pedals and
and matches it with the pedal assist
level that you've selected and on the
back here let's talk about the
drivetrain
here's the Shimano Deore XT rear
derailleur and has a nine speed
freewheel on the on the back there and
then an FSA crank that has three chain
rings so that gives you twenty seven
total speeds of gears to select there
and then this is the Shimano Sora front
derailleur alright so the display this
is where you adjust all the pedal assist
levels right now this is in power which
is the highest then you get tour city
and eco and then you have no pedal
assist and then also a recoup one and a
recoup - and what those recuperation
modes are is basically turns the motor
into a generator to put some energy back
into the battery pack so it's basically
recharging the battery pack and where
you might use that is say you're on a
long descent and you just want to throw
it into one of these recoup modes to
scrub off a little speed and put a
little charge back into the battery pack
you can also enable that with the
rear brake lever and you can see there
as I squeeze the rear brake lever it
goes to recoup to and basically it's
just activating that system
automatically when you grab that rear
brake lever so that's handy because in
the long descent you might just grab a
little bit of the brake lever and get
some of that energy back and then also
on the display you can see that there's
the speed your average speed your
distance distance odometer trip time
time and then the battery level as a
percentage you can also see the battery
level here it's always shown on a
display and there's a couple more
features on the display but you can
check those out in the full review and
then this is the Shimano Sora front
derailleur shifter and the rear
derailleur shifter there and let's not
forget about the Bell
comes in handy and these are the Magura
MT two hydraulic disc brake levers so
with that let's get into the brakes all
right so this is the Magura
MT two hydraulic disc brake it's the
caliper and rotor there and the rotor is
180 millimeters in diameter so pretty
large pretty good stopping power and
then this is the rear maguro disc brake
on the 500 watt direct drive hub motor
they're the st1 Platinum comes with Alex
rims and Schwalbe big bend tires the big
bend tires are pretty unique because
they have a low rolling resistance tread
profile and they also are really wide so
they offer some good grip and some
cushion alright so that was an overview
of the features of the Stromer st one
platinum check out
electricbikereview.com
[Music]